1. What is the purpose of SQL?
SQL = Structured Query Language
interacts with the relational databases in the form of inserting, deleting and updating/modifying the data in the database.

2. What is the concept of sub-query/inner query in terms of SQL?
Sub-query is basically the query that is included inside some other query.

3. What is the use of the DROP command and what are the differences between DROP, TRUNCATE and DELETE commands?
* DROP = DDL command which is used to drop/delete the existing table, database, index, or view.
        table gets deleted permanently, all the privileges/indexes related to it gets deleted.
        cannot be rolled back.
* TRUNCATE = DDL command to delete the data from table, the structure still remains.
             can be rolled back until commit is made.
* DELETE = delete specific rows from table and can be rolled back.

3. What is the main difference between UNION and UNION ALL?

4. 36. What is a functional dependency in the DBMS?

5. What is 1NF, 2NF, 3NF, BCNF in the DBMS?

6. What is a CLAUSE in terms of SQL?

7. How can you get the alternate records from the table in the SQL?

8. How is the pattern matching done in the SQL?

9. What is a join in the SQL? What are the different types of joins in SQL?

10. Explain the Stored Procedure.

11. What is RDBMS?

12.  What is conceptual design in dbms?

13. Differentiate between logical database design and physical database design. Show how this separation leads to data independence.

14. What are temporary tables? When are they useful?

15. Explain different types of failures that occur in the Oracle database.

Questions: 
Q. There is a table where only one row is fully repeated. Write a Query to find the Repeated row.

Q. Query to find 2nd highest salary of an employee?

Q.Consider the following Employee table. How many rows are there in the result of the following query? 
How many rows are there in the result of the following query?

Q. Write a trigger to update Emp table such that, If an updation is done in Dep table then salary of all employees of that 
department should be incremented by some amount (updation) Assuming Table name are Dept and Emp, trigger can be written as follows

Q. There is a table which contains two columns Student and Marks, you need to find all the students, 
whose marks are greater than average marks i.e. list of above-average students.

Q.Name the Employee who has the third-highest salary using sub queries.

Q. Why we cannot use WHERE clause with aggregate functions like HAVING ? 
The difference between the having and where clause in SQL is that the where clause canNOT be used with aggregates, but the having clause can. 

Q. Difference between primary key and unique key and why one should use a unique key if it allows only one null ? 

Q. What’s the difference between materialized and dynamic view? Materialized views

Q. What is embedded and dynamic SQL?  Static or Embedded SQL

Q. What is the difference between CHAR and VARCHAR?
