* Spring Framework Introduction:
1. An application framework and IOC (Inversion of Control) container for the Java platform.
2. Robust
3. POJO Based
4. Open source
5. Modular Approach: Even if there are a lot of packages and classes, you only need to worry about the ones you need and ignore the rest.
6. Integration with existing frameworks such as Hibernate, Tapestry, EJB, JSF, Struts, etc.
7. Web MVC
8. Central Exception Handling: provides a handy API for converting technology-specific exceptions 
(such as those raised by JDBC, Hibernate, or JDO) into consistent, unchecked exceptions.
9. Light weight: IoC containers are typically lightweight, especially when compared to EJB containers,
10. contains several modules like IOC, AOP, DAO, Context, WEB MVC, etc.

* POJO
Plain Old Java Object (POJO) 
-> a database entity is represented by POJO.
-> POJO has the same members as the database entity.
-> POJO are not tied to any framework, any java program can use it
-> An ordinary Java object, not bound by any special restriction other than those forced by the Java Language Specification 
Properties of POJO: 
- Cannot extend prespecified classes
- Cannot implement prespecified interfaces
- Cannot contain prespecified annotations
- No restriction on access-modifiers of fields
- Not necessary to include any constructor in it
- POJO is an object which encapsulates Business Logic

* Java Beans
Java Beans => POJO with some restrictions.  
              1. They should implement serializable
              2. Fields should be private
              3. Getter setter and a no-arg consrtuctor should be present, fields should be accessed through these only.

The POJO classes are similar to Beans as both are used to define the objects to increase the readability and re-usability.
All JavaBeans are POJOs but not all POJOs are JavaBeans.

Spring Features:
1. IoC container: 
2. Data access framework: provides persistence APIs like JDBC and Hibernate to store persistence data in DB.
Helps developer in managing DB connection, exceptions, and accessing persistent data through application.
3. Spring MVC framework: 
4. Transaction management: 
5. Spring Web Service: 
6. JDBC abstraction layer: 
7. Spring TestContext framework: 

Spring Framework Architecture:
1. Spring Core Module: 
2. Spring AOP Module: 
3. Spring ORM Module: 
4. Spring Web MVC Module: 
5. Spring Web Flow Module: 
6. Spring Web DAO Module: 
7. Spring Application Context Module: 


A typical java application has 3 layers:
  a. Web Layer = controller 
  b. Business Layer = service
  c. Data Layer = dao 

AOP -> Aspect-Oriented Programming. where all the cross cutting concerns are grouped together.
       These aspects are commonly used by many classes.



Dependency injection (DI)
=> When class one uses objects of other classes.

Spring actuators: used for monitoring of applications.
